
Sauerbraten uses lightmaps for its lighting system. Place lights as in cube, e.g:

	newent light RADIUS R G B

A good radius for a small wall light is 64, for a middle sized room 128... for a sun
probably more like 1000.

	calclight
	
This calculates all lightmaps. Usually takes only a few seconds, depending on map size
and settings. If you "savemap", the lightmap will be stored along with it.

	lightprecision P

Default = 32. This is the most important variable for tweaking the lighting, it determines
what the resolution of the lightmap is. As such has a BIG effect on calculation time,
video memory usage, and map file size.

The default is good for most maps, you may go as low as 16 if you are lighting a really
small map and love hard shadows, and for bigger maps you may need to set it to 64 or so
to get reasonable memory usage.

The number to watch out for is the number of lightmaps generated which are shown on the
HUD (and also as output after a calclight). 1 or 2 lightmap textures is very good, over
10 lightmap textures is excessive. 

The map file size is for 90% determined by the lightmaps, so tweak this value to get
an acceptable quality to size ratio. Look at the size of the map files, sometimes a
slightly higher lightprecision can halve the size of your .ogz. 

Every surface matters, even though sauerbraten attempts to compress surfaces with a
uniform lightvalue, it is always a good ideas to delete parts of the world that are not
part of your map.

lightprecision, lighterror, and lightlod are stored as part of map files.

	lighterror E
	
Default = 8. There should be little reason to tweak this. If in your map you can see
visible polygon boundaries caused by lighting, you can try stepping this down to 6 or
4 to improve quality at the expense of lightmap space. If you have an insanely large
map and looking for ways to reduce file size, increasing error up to 16 may help.

        lightlod D
Default = 0. This will double the resolution of lightmaps (cut the lightprecision in half)
if size of the surface being lit is smaller than 2^D units. This allows large maps
to have pockets of detailed lighting without using a high resolution over everything.

	aalights X

Default = 1, determines whether to use 4x sampling for every lightmap texel. You should
not need to touch this var, unless waiting for calclight really bothers you, you can set
it to 0 for a 4x speedup and blockier shadows. Also, for a slight increase in appearance,
one may set it to 2 to turn on 8x sampling; however, this takes greatly longer and is
enabled by default.

        shadows B
Default = 1, determines whether or not objects cast shadows. You should also not need to
touch this var. However, it does allow you to see the effectiveness and reach of your
lights if turned off.

